While a full HDR pipeline is still the exception rather than the rule for game development, a jump to 4K resolution is practically standard for the games that have been enhanced for the Xbox One X. Unlike the PS4 Pro, which often upscales 1080p games to 1440p or some other sub-4K midpoint, Microsoft boasts that the One X can render complex titles natively at a full 3840x2160. As we’ve discussed on Ars previously, though, whether that difference really makes an impact depends heavily on the game, the size of the TV, the living room that TV is being used in, and even the eyes of the person viewing that TV.
For this review, we tested the Xbox One X in two different living rooms on opposite sides of the country. While Ars Gaming Editor Kyle Orland shrugged his shoulders at most of the 4K optimizations he saw on a couch eight feet away from a  50-inch 4K set, Ars Tech Culture Editor Sam Machkovech was riveted by some of the 4K boosts he perceived on his 55-inch set about six feet from his couch. At this level of pixel density, such small differences matter for the overall effect. Both testers agreed that 4K content looked better in their living rooms than 1080p content did, but Kyle felt it was extremely hard to distinguish from the “near-4K” or “checkerboarding” upscaled rendering found on many PS4 Pro games.

We’ve already crowed here about Gears of War 4, because the game's 4K performance is absolutely comparable to max settings on a Windows 10 PC equipped with a GTX 1070 and a quad-core i7 chip. That also means important GoW4 elements like shadow detail and texture quality have been cranked up to make the most of the boosted resolution—you’re not just getting the Xbox One version with more pixels and a grimy suite of dated visual niggles.

Titanfall 2, seen here in its Xbox One X "enhanced" mode. That's actually running at greater than 4K resolution, then supersampled down. It's phenomenal in action at 60 fps.
The pixel count and fluid screen refresh are cool enough in this enhanced version of Titanfall 2. Those wonderful shadows, detailed textures, and dense foliage make the effect look all the more dazzling.
Draw distance, shadows, and texture all look quite good in Need For Speed: Payback's "enhanced" 4K mode on Xbox One X.
Need For Speed: Payback's motion blur looks all the more lovely in Xbox One X's enhanced 4K mode. It certainly makes the game's 30 fps cap a little more tolerable.
Not every Xbox One X "enhanced" game really shines in 4K, however. Free-to-play dungeon crawler Path of Exile boosts its texture filtering and shadow quality when growing to 4K resolution, but its piddly textures and simple geometry actually look worse without the original version's softness.
Assassin's Creed Origins running in 4K. All shots here are also sampled in HDR, which means colors will look a little more blown out on a standard display, but you can see important 4K details in these shots.
At its best, AC: Origins makes the most of 4K resolution by expanding detail across giant scenes like this. However, even on XB1X, the game doesn't lock a 30 fps refresh, and there's no option to select, say, frame rate stability over quality.
Fine particle effects, particularly in terms of glimmering sand, pop all the more in 4K. (Again, this was an HDR image, hence the blown-out colors. It looks far better on an HDR display.)
An example of how 4K resolution benefits characters and far-off textures to pop that much more. From what we can tell, this game's XB1X version has higher resolution than PS4 Pro and comparable performance (which, sadly, is a not-quite-locked 30 fps on both platforms).
AC: Origins' texture pack is the same on all XB1 models, which means some textures can look splotchy up close, but the overall texture resolution is still solid in 4K resolution.
The HDR effect of fire, which you can also enjoy on PS4 Pro, is pretty great. You're also getting a superior shadow effect on Xbox One X compared to standard Xbox One.

But if you really wanna get knocked on your keister, get a load of what EA and Respawn pulled off with Titanfall 2 on Xbox One X. The stellar shooter series was already designed to rip in terms of framerate at 1080p resolution, but Respawn took a look at Xbox One X’s performance overhead and played around with its dynamic-resolution scaler.

On older consoles, this allowed players to guarantee a 60 fps refresh when the game got too busy or hectic on older consoles. Turns out, that dynamic scaler also cranks in the opposite direction to afford more pixels on more powerful console hardware (PC players have already been able to experiment with this, of course). The result is a Titanfall 2 experience that packs insane sharpness and clarity into its action. This supersampling above 4K resolution obliterates the usual jagged edges seen on diagonal lines.

Again, if you’re slumped back in your favorite distant chair, you may barely notice this effect. And on slower-paced, less-detailed games like Disneyland Adventures or Zoo Tycoon, the value of those extra pixels is definitely less pronounced. But on a well-optimized, high-end first-person shooter, seeing such a sharp picture moving at a solid 60 fps on a screen that fills your field of view really makes a visual impact.